# Theoretical Questions

- What is functional programming?
  Functional programming is a programming paradigm that as opposed to Object-Oriented-Programming defines a process of software development relying exclusively on functions. There are three main concepts of functional programming:
  1. In this programming paradigm functions are treated like any other value and can be passed as arguments to functions and returned from other (higher-order) functions.
  2. Immutabilty: In functional programming changing states of variables should be avoided, instead new variables should be declared.
  3. Write pure functions: Pure functions should always give the same output so that they should only be defined by their arguments. This means that data and functions should be kept in separate places. Writing pure functions have a few advantages. It is clean, easy to test and easy to debug.
- Why would you write integration tests and what generally you would like to test?
  Opposed to unit testing that is used to test the functionality of single units of a program in their isolation, integration tests can test how those unit interact and integrate with each other. Since it is very rare that I would use a single unit of an application in isolation, unit testing those units don't say anything about, whether my application works in its complexity. I would write unit tests first to test single units and then write integration tests to make sure that single units of my program work together as expected.
- What is your opinion on Micro Services? Have you ever worked with one? Why is monolithic system bad?
  So far I haven't worked with microservices, but I think the advantages of microservices outweigh the advantages of monolithic systems long-term.
  While a monolithic system can be advantageous in small and cohesive teams, it comes with a lot of disadvantages that have to be considered. First of all, because a monolithic system contains all the logic of the entire system, new team members need a understand the entire system and it can be challenging to join the team depending on the system's size. Deployments are complicated, because the application has to be redeployed after any change in any part of the code. Moreover, because the system is intertwined, it is more difficult to do testing. Last but not least, monolithic systems can be only scaled horizontally, this means that there is too much responsibility on the servers. If one of the server crashes, the entire system will collapse.
  The main advantage of microservices compared to monolithic systems is scalability. Large systems benefit from microservices because the entire system works like a set of independent services that interact with each other. This makes parallel development easy, because parts of the application can be changed and deployed without breaking the entire application.